README.md, before:

---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# PACE-HRH-UI

In the rapidly evolving landscape of population health management, there
is a critical and pressing need for tools that enable efficient capacity
estimation, taking into account various dynamic factors such as
population demographics, seasonal trends, and health-related tasks. To
address this challenge, we introduce an open-source software designed to
serve as a population-aware capacity estimator. This application offers
users the ability to configure inputs related to population size,
seasonal variations, and specific health tasks, thereby providing
customized capacity planning solutions tailored to different regions and
diverse needs. <br><br> PACE-HRH-UI is a shinyapp that encapulates the
[PACE-HRH](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/PACE-HRH/releases)
package which employs stochastic simulation for capacity projections
based on excel spreadsheets configurations, it offers users a friendly
interface to visualization the input data and simulation results. Users
can also download and coompare results from different run for further
analysis.

### Download the app

Install the most recent version of the PACE-HRH-UI binary file from our
[releases](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/PACE-HRH-UI/releases)

### Run the app locally

The first step is torun `install_packages.R`, once you have all the
dependent packages installed, in RStudio open `app.R` and click on "Run
App". Alternatively you can launch the app from the RStudio console with
the following:

```         
library(shiny)
runApp(port=8888)
```

<br> This will launch your default browser and open
<http://localhost:8888>, you can use any port as you wish but if you
switch port between two runs, your data may not be saved in the same
local storage.

### Installation and Run on windows without Git and Rstudio

To install the app in a separate environment: <br> Download
`start_pace_ui.bat` and run it by double clicking it (or open a
commandline window to your downloaded folder to run it). This will
prompt you a [step by step guide](./Setup.md) for installation and
running the app. <br> Once installed on your desired folder, for future
use, you should go to the subfolder with name PACE-HRH-UI-{version} and
run the start_pace_ui.bat from there, this will start the app in offline mode and open
your default browser so that you can interact with it. To close the app,
simply press any key on the command prompt window. <br> You can zip this
pre-installed self-contained folder and send it to those who do not have
internet access, they should be able to run `start_pace_ui.bat` without
installation. <br>

### Screenshots

-   From Homepage you can start a new simulation from scratch or use a
    previous run configuration to start.

![Home Page](./screenshots/1.homepage.png)

-   Configure page for simulation paramaters. ![Configuration
    Page](./screenshots/2.configuration.png)

-   Configure page for input data:  This allows you to upload and preview custom
    data. ![Configuration Data](./screenshots/3.configure_data.png)

-   Visualize your input data. ![Validation
    Page](./screenshots/4.validation.png)

-   Run simulation page: This allows you set simulation iterations. ![Run
    simulation Page](./screenshots/5.Run_simulation.png)

-   Check simulation logs for progress and potential issues.
    ![simulation Logs Page](./screenshots/6.Run_simulation_log.png)

-   Visualize and download the pdf file. ![Download Pdf
    Data](./screenshots/7.result_compare.png)

-   Download result files to your desktop and do your own analysis.
    ![Download result files Page](./screenshots/9.download_files.png)

Commit message:

adding upgrade and delete scenarios (#41)
* adding upgrade and delete scenarios
* Improve setup script based on suggetions
* improve documentations for setup/upgrade

README.md, after:

# PACE-HRH-UI

In the rapidly evolving landscape of population health management, there
is a critical and pressing need for tools that enable efficient capacity
estimation, taking into account various dynamic factors such as
population demographics, seasonal trends, and health-related tasks. To
address this challenge, we introduce an open-source software designed to
serve as a population-aware capacity estimator. This application offers
users the ability to configure inputs related to population size,
seasonal variations, and specific health tasks, thereby providing
customized capacity planning solutions tailored to different regions and
diverse needs. <br><br> PACE-HRH-UI is a shinyapp that encapulates the
[PACE-HRH](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/PACE-HRH/releases)
package which employs stochastic simulation for capacity projections
based on excel spreadsheets configurations, it offers users a friendly
interface to visualization the input data and simulation results. Users
can also download and coompare results from different run for further
analysis.

### Download the app

Install the most recent version of the PACE-HRH-UI binary file from our
[releases](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/PACE-HRH-UI/releases)

### Run the app locally

The first step is torun `install_packages.R`, once you have all the
dependent packages installed, in RStudio open `app.R` and click on "Run
App". Alternatively you can launch the app from the RStudio console with
the following:

```         
library(shiny)
runApp(port=8888)
```

<br> This will launch your default browser and open
<http://localhost:8888>, you can use any port as you wish but if you
switch port between two runs, your data may not be saved in the same
local storage.

### Installation and Run on windows without Git and Rstudio

To install the app in a separate environment: <br> Download
`start_pace_ui.bat` and run it by double clicking it (or open a
commandline window to your downloaded folder to run it). If this is your first time installing, please follow the [step by step guide](./Setup.md) for installation and
running the app. <br> Once installed on your desired folder, for future
use, you should go to the subfolder with name PACE-HRH-UI-{version} and
run the start_pace_ui.bat from there, this will start the app in offline mode and open
your default browser so that you can interact with it. To close the app,
simply press any key on the command prompt window. <br> You can zip this
pre-installed self-contained folder and send it to those who do not have
internet access, they should be able to run `start_pace_ui.bat` without
installation. <br><br>
If you need to update the app when there is [new releases](https://github.com/InstituteforDiseaseModeling/PACE-HRH-UI/releases) available, 
please follow the [upgrade existing app guide](./Update.md)

### Screenshots

-   From Homepage you can start a new simulation from scratch or use a
    previous run configuration to start.

![Home Page](./screenshots/1.homepage.png)

-   Configure page for simulation paramaters. ![Configuration
    Page](./screenshots/2.configuration.png)

-   Configure page for input data:  This allows you to upload and preview custom
    data. ![Configuration Data](./screenshots/3.configure_data.png)

-   Visualize your input data. ![Validation
    Page](./screenshots/4.validation.png)

-   Run simulation page: This allows you set simulation iterations. ![Run
    simulation Page](./screenshots/5.Run_simulation.png)

-   Check simulation logs for progress and potential issues.
    ![simulation Logs Page](./screenshots/6.Run_simulation_log.png)

-   Visualize and download the pdf file. ![Download Pdf
    Data](./screenshots/7.result_compare.png)

-   Download result files to your desktop and do your own analysis.
    ![Download result files Page](./screenshots/9.download_files.png)
